Next, we are going to look at the inertia
term. That's the torque required to accelerate
the joints of the arm. That's this term here.
So, we'll cross the other two out.
Now, I'm going to compute the inertia matrix
of our robot, and that's yet another method
on the two-link robot object, and the method
is called "inertia" and the arguments to that
are the joint angles of the robot Q1 and Q2.
And, here we have the 2x2 inertia matrix of
our robot. Once again, we can see that it
is a function of kinematic and dynamic parameters
of a robot, and it's also a function of the
configuration of the robot, and we can see
sine and cosine of Q2 appearing in this expression.
Here is the inertia matrix for our two link
robot manipulator. It's a 2x2 matrix and it's
a symmetric matrix; and that means that this
term here is equal to this term here. And,
we can see that the inertia matrix is quite
complex and it is not constant.
We can see that the elements in this matrix
are functions of the joint angles Q2, as well
as the masses of the robot link, the kinematic
parameters A1 and A2, and the position of
the centre of mass, C2. We can write it in
simplified form where we have just three unique
elements, I11, I22 on the principal diagonal,
and I12 and I21 on the opposite diagonal.
And, as I just mentioned, the matrix is symmetric
so I12 equals I21.
The vector of torques acting on the robot's
joints are given by the inertia matrix multiplied
by the vector of joint accelerations. Now,
we can expand that out, and we can highlight
now the two terms on the diagonal.
In the previous lecture when we considered
robot joint control, life was simple. We had
a relationship between the torque that the
motor applies to a joint, the acceleration
of a joint and the inertia of that joint.
Now, we can see that things are not quite
so straightforward. We can see that there
is a relationship between torque 1 and the
acceleration of joint 1 just like we had in
the simpler case. But we now also have these
disturbance torques. That means that the torque
acting on joint 1 is due not just to the acceleration
of joint 1, but also to the acceleration of
joint 2.
Imagine for a moment that joint 1 is stationary.
It's non-accelerating. The joint control is
trying to keep it stationary. If joint number
2 starts to accelerate, it's going to exert
a torque on joint number 1, which the joint
1 motor controller is going to have to deal
with. It's going to have to come up with some
extra torque, apply it to the motor to stop
joint 1 moving, due to the influence of joint
2. We're going to compute the inertia of this
robot numerically. We're going to use the
inertia method and going to compute it for
joint angle zero, zero, and this is the inertia
matrix and we can see that it is symmetric.
This element here equals this element here.
And, just to remind ourselves of the configuration
of this robot, we are going to plot it. There
it is. So, this is the robot with its arm
fully outstretched. Now, what we can do is
to change the configuration. So, I'm going
to put the robot in to a configuration where
the second joint angle is 90 degrees. So,
now the robot looks like this. And, I can
compute the inertia for this new configuration,
0 pi/2. And, we can see that some elements
of the inertia matrix have changed.
In fact, they have been reduced. And, this
element here, which is the inertia seen by
joint 1 is reduced. And that is because the
centre of mass of joint 2 is now closer to
the rotational axis of joint 1. Now, I can
bring that in even further. Let's see what
it looks like if I put the robot in to a configuration
where the first angle is 0, and the second
joint angle is equal to pi or 180 degrees
and the arm is folded back on itself, which
may not actually be physically possible, but
let's work with that.
Now, I can look at the inertia in this configuration
and see that it is even further reduced. That's
because all the mass of the robot is as close
as it possibly can get to the rotational axis
of joint 1. So, if I collapse that figure,
then what we can see is progressively the
magnitude of the elements in the inertia matrix
become less and less as we increase joint
angle 2.
And, this is a topic that we will revisit
shortly. The problem for a joint control system,
when the inertia that it has to deal with
varies with the configuration of the robot.